I am Mykhailo Drahomanov, born in 1841 in Hadiach,
Ukraine. I am a Ukrainian political theorist,
economist, historian, philosopher, ethnographer,
and public figure in Kyiv. I am known as one
of the first socialist activists in Ukraine.
I am from a noble family of Petro Drahomanov who
was of Cossack descent, I started my education
at home, then studied at the Hadiach school,
Poltava senior school, and the Taras Shevchenko
National University of Kyiv. My family is linked
to many Ukrainian national figures such as the
Ukrainian poet Larysa Kosach and Olena Pchilka.
Many of my family members were members of the
Decembrist movement and political prisoners.
This sharpened my national views.
I lectured at Kyiv University between
1870 and 1875, but because of the repressions
against the Ukrainian movement peaking up in 1876,
I emigrated to Geneva. I continued my political,
scholarly, and publishing activities. In 1895,
I wrote the first systematic political program for
the Ukrainian national movement which
was described as ethical socialism.
I was one of the leaders of the Kyiv
administrative unit called the Hromada.
This allowed me to be in contact with Ukrainians
of Austria and the Academic Circle in Lemberg
which yielded the establishment of
the Ukrainian democratic platform.
As a result, in 1875 I was fired from
Kyiv University by the Russian government.
I became a spokesman for Hromada abroad while
settling in Geneva, Switzerland. I published
the Ukrainian political magazine and created the
Ukrainian socialist organization. my legacy can
be discerned in the whole Ukrainian tradition of
leftist political parties and political activism.
I personally influenced a handful of younger
Ukrainian intellectuals in Habsburg Galicia in
the late 1870s, such as Ivan Franko and Mykhailo
Pavlyk, both of whom accepted my ideas although
reworked them later according to their own
mold. I died in 1895 giving not only all my
intellectual forces and health but also all my
family’s material resources for the national,
political, and social liberation of the people of
Ukraine and the preparation of its great future.